No,
let's talk about the different type off the Lennox shells that are available to us in our
Lennox environment.
When we have a Lennox machine running,
what are the different shells of he could take advantage off?
The 1st 1 is genome.
If you don't know what genome is,
actually,
genome is like a graphical environment that is in Lenox.
Now.
You must be thinking home isn't Lennox command line interface.
It is most of the time,
but there are people who actually installed Lennox with the gooey and the gooey while you
were installing the gooey.
Or while you're going through the installation,
you have the option to install Gui as well.
And the two options that you have for Gui is genome,
and the 2nd 1 is K D E.
Both of these are the desktop gui environment,
and they are the shells.
So you log into those environment you are in the show and then you run command.
How you execute commands you to execute your keyboard and through your mouse you click
click,
drag drop here and there.
That's how the interact would the operating system through that show.
Now,
of course,
let's go back to our main topic,
which is the command line chills.
Now the command line shows the main one is shell is just s h shell.
Of course,
this is we are now talking about when we do not have a gooey We are in a command line.
And now we need to use a show.
When you use the logs in,
um,
a user is given a shell a platform to work.
That platform is assigned to the user when when the user account is created.
So as I mentioned before,
if you go to Etsy past where you will see your shell So if you are let's suppose are given
bash shell by default and you want to switch to S H.
You could do that by going to a different shell.
How do you How can you do that?
We'll cover that later.
So show this just s H is a born show Call.
Sh R s H is one of the original in eggshells.
It is developed by UNIX computers by Stephan Born.
His name was actually born.
That's why they picked the name born chill from he worked for AT and T Bell Labs in 1977
Those are one of the oldest days when actually let exports or UNIX was being developed.
Its long history of use of means.
Many software developers are familiar with it.
It offers features such as input and output redirection shell,
scripting with string integer variables and condition testing and looping.
And so many of the things which,
of course,
don't worry about it.
All those the heavy words will cover them later in the lessons.
Then we have Bash Bash What is it now?
The popularity off shell which was S h was so so much that you know it made it.
It actually motivated programmers who actually developed the results show that was
compatible with it but with the several and has men.
They added so many things to it.
Lennox system still offer shell scripts They came away with bash so they still have show.
But now they came up bash Know what bash means?
It means born again shell.
So if the shelves still exists somewhere,
don't think that shell S H is gone.
Now the newer shell is available,
which is called Born again shell.
And in our entire course,
we will be using Born Again shell.
Why?
Because it has a lot of enhanced features,
and it is very user friendly.
So maney,
um,
features of variables that we could use in that show.
Then what out what their other shells there is.
Seashell and T C.
Shell developers have written large part of slings operating systems in C and C plus plus
language is right,
you know that using cease in Texas,
a model Bill Joy,
who was at Berkeley University,
developed a seashell in,
ah,
believe 1977 or 78 then the Ken Ken Greer.
I think that was his last name.
Working at Mellon University took seashell concept as a step forward,
and when it took several,
what did he do?
He came up to the New York show,
which was T.
C Shell and based on your system directory structure and follows.
T Shell does not run bash scripts.
Eso um,
if you are in a t shell and you want to run bash,
it's not gonna run it anyway.
Most of the people don't use seashell and T shells unless you really are proficient in C
and C plus plus programming language.
So my advice to you,
you could stay away from it.
If you are a beginner not to worry about these,
then the last one we have is corn shell or Keisha David Corn.
OK,
see,
that's the name.
So that's why the people came out with the shelves because they associate ID.
The name,
whether so the person who came up with a corn shell His name was David Corn.
He developed a corn shell on dumb.
It was about the time like T.
C.
C shell was introduced.
So corn shell is compatible with shell and bash l as well.
Now core Shal improves on boring shelled by adding floating point automatic job control and
so many of the things I don't want to confuse you right now.
Um,
injure UNIX environment.
most of time.
Corn shell is used in Solaris where,
as in Lenox environment most of the time,
a bash Ellis used,
as I mentioned again,
If you need to know the list of shells that you have installed in your system,
all you have to do is go into you,
log into your linens machine and type cat s sea shells,
and you will see all the list of shells.
So this is what I wanted to cover,
and I want you to be aware these are the different type of shells.
If you are creating a shell script and you need to get help on creating a shelves,
let's say,
if you google it,
maybe you will find some off the information or some of the US ah,
scripting syntax in bash and some off them in corn shell.
So you have to be very careful.
They're probably not gonna work on one another.
That's why you need to know the difference off different shells.